
Intraoperative Management A10-A17.

1. Blood Pressure.
???) Hypovolemic shock is characterized by:
A. A low central venous pressure, low cardiac output, low peripheral resistance
B. A high central venous pressure, high cardiac output, low peripheral resistance
C. A low central venous pressure, low cardiac output, high peripheral resistance
D. A low central venous pressure, high cardiac output, high peripheral resistance
E. A high central venous pressure, low cardiac output, low peripheral resistance

Answer: C* A low central venous pressure, low cardiac output, high peripheral resistance

???) In a patient with severe hypovolemic shock all of the following are common clinical features, except:
Tachycardia
Sweating
Hyperpyrexia
Pallor
Hypotension

Answer: 3* Hyperpyrexia

???) All the following clinical findings are seen in patient with hypovolemia except:
Hypotension
Bradycardia
Decreased urine output
Pale
Decreased level of conscious

Answer: 2* Bradycardia

???) All of the following are important compensatory mechanisms in hemorrhagic shock, except:
Tachycardia
Venous constriction
Decreased peripheral vascular resistance
Absorption of fluids from the intestine
Formation of angiotensin 2

Answer: C* Decreased peripheral vascular resistance

???) All the following conditions can lead to compressive shock except:
Tension pneumothorax
Pericardial effusion
Positive pressure ventilation with high airway pressure
Myocardial infarction
Abdominal compartment syndrome

Answer: 4* Myocardial infarction

???) All of the following are causes of shock, except:
Myocardial infarction
Cardiac tamponade
Respiratory failure
Burns
Sepsis

Answer: 3* Respiratory failure

2. Fluid Balance and Resuscitation.
???) About the body water all are true except:
It comprises about 55% by weight of the average 70 kg female
It's chiefly in the intracellular fluid and decreases with age
It's proportionally larger in infants than in adults
It's proportionally smaller in female than in male
Obese needs more fluid than sportsmen

Answer: 5* Obese needs more fluid than sportsmen

???) The daily insensible water loss from skin and lungs in healthy adult is:
500 ml
900 ml
1500 ml
2000 ml
2500 ml

Answer: 2* 900 ml

3. IV Fluids.
???) Which of the following IV solution has almost the same electrolytes like plasma:
Dextrose 5%
Dextran 40
Normal saline
Dextrose saline
Ringers lactate

Answer: 5* Ringers lactate

???) Amount of calories contained in 1 liter of G/W 20% is:
100 Kcal
400 Kcal
800 Kcal
1000 Kcal
2000 Kcal

Answer: 3*800 Kcal

???) Patient with hemorrhagic shock, the best IV solution to be given until blood is at hand is:
G/W 5%
G/W 10%
Ringer's lactate
Albumin
Aminoacid solution

Answer: 3* Ringer's lactate

???) Which one of the following IV solutions contains potassium (K):
Ringer's lactate
Dextran 40
Dextran 70
Dextrose water 5%
Dextrose saline

Answer: 1* Ringer's lactate

???) Which of the following IV solutions is the best plasma expander:
5% dextrose water
0,9% NaCl
0,45% NaCl
Gelfusine
0,18% NaCl

Answer: 1* 5% dextrose water

???) In total parenteral nutrition the recommended method to give the IV solution is through a:
Central venous line
Peripheral arterial line
Nasogastric feeding tube
Peripheral venous line
Feeding jejunostomy tube

Answer: 1* Central venous line

***) All of the following could be used as volume replacement in children, except:
Plasma
Albumen
Factor 8
Normal saline
Blood

Answer: C* Factor 8

Uncommon Complications A24-A25.

1. Malignant Hyperthermia (MH).
???) Malignant hyperthermia is treated specifically with:
A. Dantrolene
B. Chlorpromazine
C. Sodium EDTA
D. Calcium EDTA
E. Calcium gluconate

Answer: A* Dantrolene

Common Medications A25-A28.

1. Intravenous Induction Agents.
???) Regarding diazepam, all of the following are correct except:
A. It is a respiratory depressant
B. Has anticonvulsant effect
C. Has a hypnotic effect
D. Has antidepressant action
E. Releases aggressive tendency

Answer: D* Has antidepressant action

Unknown Place.

1. Unknown Place.
???) Which of the following is not effective in preventing urinary tract infection in postoperative patients:
Assuring complete emptying of the urinary bladder
Cleansing of the urethral meatus with antimicrobial prior to catheter insertion
Use of a closed drainage system in catheterized patients
Irrigation of indwelling catheters with antimicrobial solutions
Administration of systemic antibiotics that are selectively concentrated in die urine

Answer: 5* Administration of systemic antibiotics that are selectively concentrated in die urine
