
Anatomy NS02-NS04.

1. Anatomy.
???) The following arteries contribute to the formation of the circle of Willis, except:
A. Internal carotid artery
B. Posterior commnicating artery
C. Posterior cerebral artery
D. Anterior cerebral artery
E. Posterior inferior cerebellar artery

Answer: E* Posterior inferior cerebellar artery

Intracranial Pressure (ICP) NS04-NS06.

1. Cerebral Blood Flow (CBF).
???) Regarding the cerebral blood flow (CBF) which of the following statements is
true:
Average flow is 54 ml / 100 g / min
Inferior colliculus and sensorimotor cortex have the highest rate of CBF
Grey matter has higher CBF than white matter
Venous pressure, mean arterial pressure, and intracranial pressure are factors that affect the CBF
All of the above.

Answer: 5* All of the above

2. ICP Measurement.
???) General measures that are used to lower intracranial pressure include all of the following except:
Head up 30 degrees
Avoid Hypotension
Avoid jugular venous outflow constriction
Induce hyperventilation
Intubate patients with GCS < 8 or with respiratory distress

Answer: 4* Induce hyperventilation

Hydrocephalus NS07-NS09.

1. Hydrocephalus.
???) Which is acceptable procedures for the treatment of hydrocephalus:
Endoscopic third ventriculostomy
Ventriculo peritoneal shunt
Ventricular access device with frequent tapping
External ventricular drain
All of the above

Answer: 5* All of the above

???) One of the following is the most common cause of hydrocephalus in children:
Spina bifida with meningornyelocele
Post-inflammatory and post-traumatic obstruction
Neoplasma (glyoma in the third ventricle)
Arnold Chiari malformation
Epilepsy

Answer: 4* Arnold Chiari malformation

???) Shunt infection is one of the common problems in neurosurgery, which statement is false:
Infection occurs in nearly 5% of shunt cases
Gram -ve micro organisms are the commonest micro organism to cause infection
Young age, poor skin condition, and surgeon's experience are all risk factors
CSF (obtained from shunt reservoir) culture and analysis is diagnostic in 95% of cases
A child with shunt infection may present with only irritability and intermittent fever

Answer: 2* Gram -ve micro organisms are the commonest micro organism to cause infection

Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension NS09-NS09.

1. Pseudotumor Cerebri.
***) Benign intracranial hypertension (pseudotumor cerebri) is usually associated with which of the following:
Hemiparesis
Papilloedema
Increased CSF protein and sugar
Convulsions
Severe mental retardation

Answer: 2* Papilloedema

Blood NS15-NS17.

1. Extradural Hematoma.
???) In extradural hematoma all are true, except:
A. History of head injury
B. Lucid interval
C. Convulsions or hemiplegia of the contralateral side
D. Dilatation of the ipsilateral pupil
E. The source of bleeding is one of the scalp vessels

Answer: 5* The source of bleeding is one of the scalp vessels

2. Subdural Hematoma.
???) The scalp hematoma that takes the shape of the underlying skull bone and with time it may give a false impression of a depressed fracture is:
A. Subcutaneous hematoma
B. Subgaleal hematoma
C. Intramuscular hematoma
D. Sub-epicranial hematoma
E. Extradural hematoma

Answer: 4* Sub-epicranial hematoma

Cerebrovascular Disease NS17-NS22.

1. Subarachnoid Hemorrhage (SAH).
???) Regarding aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) all is true except:
Rebleeding is the major concern and killer in the initial stabilization period
Vasospasm may occur several days after the bleeding
Hyponatremia & vasospasm are two causes of sudden deterioration in the patient's sensorium
Any type of arrhythmia may occur in SAH cases
Nimodipine a drug that facilitate calcium channels passage is used to prevent vasospasm in SAH

Answer: 5* Nimodipine a drug that facilitate calcium channels passage is used to prevent vasospasm in SAH

***) Subarachnoid hemorrhage occurs most commonly as a result of:
Rupture of an arteriovenous anomaly
Rupture of a berry aneurysm
Rupture of a mycotic aneurysm
Trauma
Rupture of a fusiform aneurysm

Answer: 2* Rupture of a berry aneurysm

Vascular Malformations NS22-NS23.

1. Arteriovenous Malformations (AVM).
???) Regarding AVM of the brain which statement is false:
AVM are dysplastic arteries and vessels with no capillaries or intervening neural parenchyma
Risk of hemorrhage is life long as they are congenital
Small AVM's tend to present more often with bleeding than larger ones
The angiogram is diagnostic radiological exam as AVM's cannot be diagnosed or visualized on MRI
The younger patient at the time of diagnosis the higher risk of developing

Answer: 4* The angiogram is diagnostic radiological exam as AVM's cannot be diagnosed or visualized on MRI

Dermatome NS23-NS24.

1. Myotome.
???) Ankle jerk is controlled by:
A. L1 - L2
B. L2 - L3
C. L3 - L4
D. L5 - S1
E. L4 - L5

Answer: 4* L5 - S1

Extradural Lesions NS24-NS27.

1. Cervical Disc Syndrome.
???) Which statement regarding cervical prolapsed disc (PID) it false:
C6 C7 is the commonest site of occurrence
In a CS C6 PID the radiculopathy involves C6 root, and the biceps reflex is diminished
C4 C5 PID results in forearm flexion weakness
CD- C7 Tl PID results in weakness of hand intrinsic muscles
Left C6 radiculopathy may present with pain simulating a myocardial infarction

Answer: 3* C4 C5 PID results in forearm flexion weakness

2. Cauda Equina Syndrome.
???) The spinal cord ends in adults at:
A. The lower end of the 1st lumbar vertebra
B. The lower end of the 12th dorsal vertebra
C. The lower end of the 3rd lumbar vertebra
D. The lower end of the 5th lumbar vertebra
E. The lower end of the 3rd sacral vertebra

Answer: 1* The lower end of the 1st lumbar vertebra

???) The following associations are true, except:
A. Biceps reflex C5-C6
B. Knee jerk L3-L4
C. Ankle jerk S3-S4
D. Cremasteric reflex L1-L2
E. Triceps reflex C7-C8

Answer: C* Ankle jerk S3-S4

Pediatric Neurosurgery NS36-NS39.

1. Spinal Dysraphism.
***) A sacral meningomyelocele commonly associated with all of the following, except:
Spasticity of the lower limbs
Hydrocephalus
A neurogenic bladder
A lax anal sphincter
Meningitis

Answer: 2* Hydrocephalus

2. Intraventricular Hemorrhage (IVH).
***) All of the following are risk factors of intraventricular hemorrhage, except:
Prematurity
Respiratory syndrome
Pneumothorax
Hypercapnia and acidosis
Portal hypertension

Answer: 5* Portal hypertension

3. Craniosynostosis.
???) Large anterior fontanel is due to all of the following, except:
Hydrocephalus
Achondroplasia
Craniosynostosis
Down syndrome
Prematurity

Answer: C* Craniosynostosis
