
Anatomy Review OT02-OT06.

1. Head and Neck.
???) Buccinator muscle is supplied by:
Oculomotor nerve
Trigeminal nerve
Facial nerve
Hypoglossal nerve
Glossopharyngeal nerve

Answer: 3* Facial nerve

2. Anatomical Triangles of the Neck.
???) The recurrent laryngeal nerve is a branch from the:
A. Cervical plexus
B. Trigeminal nerve
C. Facial nerve
D. Glossopharyngeal nerve
E. Vagus nerve

Answer: 5* Vagus nerve

Common Presenting Problems P06-P09.

1. Neck Mass.
???) Regardless of age or sex the most common neck swelling is:
Lymph node enlargement
Goiter
Thyroglossal cyst
Aneurysm of carotid artery
Salivary gland tumor

Answer: 1* Lymph node enlargement

???) A painless soft tissue mass particularly attached to skin with well defined slippery edge is:
Cystic hygroma
Cavernous hemangioma
Lipoma
Neurofibroma
Fibroma

Answer: 3* Lipoma

???) Benign tumor of the surface epithelium is called:
Hemangioma
Neurofibroma
Papilloma
Epithelioma
Lipoma

Answer: 3* Papilloma

Hearing P09-P12.

1. Hearing Loss.
???) The most common cause of hearing impairment in childhood is:
A. Gentamicin
B. Increased bilirubin
C. Chronic suppurative otitis media
D. Pendred's syndrome
E. Treacher Collins syndrome

Answer: C* Chronic suppurative otitis media

???) In the presence of unilateral hearing loss, the Weber test:
A. Latcralizes to the ear with the conductive hearing loss
B. Lateralizes to the ear widi no conductive hearing loss
C. Ear with sensorineural hearing loss
D. Does not lateralize
E. None of the above

Answer: A* Latcralizes to the ear with the conductive hearing loss

Sinusitis P24-P26.

1. Chronic Sinusitis.
***) Persistent mouth breathing, constant pharyngeal irritation, low grade fever, malaise, postnatal drip and headaches most strongly suggest:
Peritonsillar abscess
Chronic sinusitis
Retropharyngeal abascess
Diphtheria
Allergic rhinitis

Answer: 2* Chronic sinusitis

Epistaxis P26-P28.

1. Epistaxis.
***) The most common cause of epistaxis in children is:
Picking the nose
Adenoid hypertrophy
Hypertension
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura
Allergic rhinitis

Answer: 1* Picking the nose

Hoarseness P28-P30.

1. Laryngitis.
???) All of the following statements about acute spasmodic laryngitis are true, except:
Caused by parainfluenzae virus
Associated with noisy inspiration
Associated with suprasternal retractions
Temperature is norma
Attacks typically occurs at night

Answer: 1* Caused by parainfluenzae virus

Salivary Glands OT30-OT32.

1. Salivary Gland Neoplasms.
???) A painless transparent cystic swelling in the floor of the mouth is known as:
A. Sublingual dermoid
B. Ranula
C. Lymphangioma
D. Hemangioma
E. Dentigerous cyst

Answer: 2* Ranula

???) A recurrent painfull swelling in the submandibular triangle at meal times is a characteristic of:
A. Stone in the duct of the submandibular salivary gland
B. TB submandibular lymphadenitis
C. Branchial cyst
D. Thyroglossal cyst
E. Pharyngeal pouch

Answer: 1* Stone in the duct of the submandibular salivary gland

???) Concerning pleomorphic adenoma of the salivary glands all of the following are true, except:
It is usually of slow growth rate
Most commonly it arises in the submandibular salivary gland
Although it is a benign tumor simple enucleation of the tumor may result in multi-centric recurrence
After many years a few pleomorphic adenomas will exhibit malignant change
Superficial parotidectomy is the ideal treatment of cases arising in the parotid gland

Answer: 2* Most commonly it arises in the submandibular salivary gland

???) Concerning Warthin's tumor, all the following are true except:
This is a cystic tumor which contains epithelial and lymphoid elements
It is benign tumor, soft and well defined
Slow-growing tumor, which presents as painless swelling over angle of jaw
It is in parotid glands more than submandibular glands
It is appears in females more than males

Answer: 5* It is appears in females more than males

2. Parotid Gland Neoplasms.
???) During superficial parotidetomy, one of the following nerves may be injured:
A. The third cranial nerve – oculomotor
B. The fifth cranial nerve – trigeminal
C. The seventh cranial nerve – facial
D. The ninth cranial nerve – glossopharyngeal
E. The eleventh cranial nerve - accessory

Answer: 3* The seventh cranial nerve – facial

???) The most common tumor of the parotid gland:
Adenocarcinoma
Mucoepidermoid carcinoma
Pleomorphic carcinoma
Squamous cell carcinoma
Monomorphic carcinoma

Answer: 3* pleomorphic adenoma

Congenital Neck Masses OT32-OT34.

1. Branchial Cleft Cysts.
???) Swelling in the midline of the neck could be one of the following, except:
A. Thyroglossal cyst
B. Dermoid cyst
C. Thyroid gland
D. Enlarged lymph node
E. Branchial cyst

Answer: 5* Branchial cyst

???) A 3 year old child has a draining lesion in the lower third of the neck along the anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle. The most likely diagnosis is:
Atypical mycobacterial infection
Thyroglossal duct sinus
Second branchial clef sinus
Actinomycosis
Epidermal inclusion cyst

Answer: 3* Second branchial clef sinus

???) Concerning branchial cyst, all the following are true except:
It's a remnant of the 2 branchial cleft
It may be associated with sinuses or fistulas
It appears in early adult life
Midline neck lump
Lined by squamous epithelium, their fluid contains cholesterol crystals

Answer: 4* Midline neck lump

2. Thyroglossal Duct Cysts.
???) A 15 years old patient presented with a painless rounded midline swelling of the anterior aspect of the neck that moves with deglutition and protrusion of the tongue, is mostly having:
A. Sublingual dermoid
B. Cystic hygroma
C. Thyro-glossal cyst
D. Solitary nodule of the thyroid isthmus
E. Submental lymph node

Answer: 3* Thyro-glossal cyst

3. Cystic Hygroma.
???) Soft cystic brilliantly translucent swelling at the side of the neck appearing at birth or early infancy is:
A. Pharyngeal pouch
B. Branchial cyst
C. Carotid body tumor
D. Cystic hygroma
E. Sternomastoid tumor

Answer: 4* Cystic hygroma

???) After difficult labor the newly born infant found to have a huge mass in one side of his neck which is softly cystic, partially compressive and brilliantly translucent, this infant has:
A. Sternomastoid tumor
B. Branchial cyst
C. Cystic hygroma
D. Pharyngeal pouch
E. Cervical rib

Answer: 3* Cystic hygroma

???) After difficult labour the newly born infant found to have a huge mass in one side of his neck which is softly cystic, partially compressive and brilliantly translucent, this infant has:
Cystic hygroma
Sternomastoid tumor
Cervical rib
Branchial cyst
Synovial cyst

Answer: 1* Cystic hygroma

Neoplasms of the Head and Neck OT34-OT38.

1. Thyroid Carcinoma.
???) The malignant thyroid tumor that occurs in young ages, spreads mainly by lymphatics and has good prognosis is:
A. Papillary carcinoma
B. Follicular carcinoma
C. Lymphoma
D. Medullary carcinoma
E. Anaplastic carcinoma

Answer: 1* Papillary carcinoma

???) The thyroid tumor which is may be associated with pheochromocytoma is:
A. Papillary carcinoma
B. Medullary carcinoma
C. Follicular carcinoma
D. Anaplastic carcinoma
E. Malignant lymphoma

Answer: 2* Medullary carcinoma

???) The thyroid tumor that spreads mainly by lymphatics is:
A. Capillary carcinoma
B. Medullary carcinoma
C. Follicular carcinoma
D. Anaplastic carcinoma
E. Thyroid sarcoma

Answer: 1* Capillary carcinoma

???) Concerning follicular thyroid carcinoma, all the following are true except:
Less common than papillary carcinoma
The peak incidence is in the 40-60 year age group rather than in young as in papillary carcinoma
The most common site for distant metastasis in bone
Often multicentric within thyroid gland
Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) can't diagnose follicular thyroid carcinoma

Answer: 3* The most common site for distant metastasis in bone

???) A 45 year old female patient presented with right thyroid nodule and hoarseness of voice of 6 months duration, the most likely diagnosed is:
Hashimoto thyroiditis
Papillary thyroid carcinoma
Anaplastic thyroid cancer
Graves disease
Medullary thyroid cancer

Answer: 2* Papillary thyroid carcinoma

???) Regarding multinodular goiter, one is correct:
10-15% of them will be malignant
Surgery is always advisable because of fear of malignancy
The main indication for surgery is pressure symptom or cosmetics
Giving L-thyroxin and inderal is the treatment of choice
Fine needle biopsy is contra-indicated because of possible bleeding

Answer: 3* The main indication for surgery is pressure symptom or cosmetics

???) The most dangerous complication after thyroid surgery is:
Hypothyroidism
Hypoparathyroidism
Hoarseness of voice
Respiratory obstruction
Wound infection

Answer: 4* Respiratory obstruction

???) The manifestations of para-thyroid insufficiency that occurs after thyroid surgery starts usually:
Immediately after surgery
Few hours after surgery
2-5 days after surgery
Two months after surgery
Six months after surgery

Answer: 3* 2-5 days after surgery

***) In Thyroid gland, all the following are true except:
A. Located anterior and caudal to the cartilages of larynx
B. Normal weight 20 grams
C. Follicles are the functional secretary units of thyroid gland
D. Most of triidothyronine is secreted by thyroid follicles
E. Thyroglobuline has tyrosine incorporated in its molecule

Answer: D* Most of triidothyronine is secreted by thyroid follicles

Pediatric Otolaryngology P38-P47.

1. Otitis Media.
***) The following are features of otitis media, except:
Discharge from the ear
Pain in the ear
Buzzing in the ear
A bulging ear drum
Fever

Answer: 3* Buzzing in the ear

2. Peritonsillar Abscess.
***) Peritonsillar and retrotonsillar abscesses are almost always caused by:
A. Group A β-hemolytic streptococci
B. H.Influenza
C. Staphylococci
D. Pseudomonas aeruginosa
E. Rhinovirus

Answer: A* Group A β-hemolytic streptococci

3. Signs of Airway Obstruction.
***) All of the following are the causes of stridor, except:
Laryngomalacia
Laryngitis
Foreign body
Mediastinal mass
Otitis media

Answer: 5* Otitis media

***) All of the following are causes of acute onset of stridor, except:
Laryngotracheobronchitis
Epiglottitis
Tonsillitis
Foreign body in the trachea
Diphtheria

Answer: 3* Tonsillitis

4. Acute Epiglottitis.
???) A 2 year old male child wakes up at night with 38.5 temp, cough continues stridor, drooling of secretions, and voice muffled. The most likely diagnosis is:
Epiglottitis
Viral croup
Foreign body aspiration
Diphtheria
Bronchiolitis

Answer: 1* Epiglottitis

***) The best management of 5 years old boy with epiglottitis is:
Urgent admission to ICU
Give Chloramphenicol at home
Give long acting Penicillin injection
Observe in outpatient clinic for 8 hours
Give Erythromycin

Answer: A* Urgent admission to ICU

***) The treatment of choice in acute epiglottitis is:
Penicillin
Erythromycin
Carbenicillin and gentamycin
Ampicillin and chloramphenicol
Rifampicin

Answer: 4* Ampicillin and chloramphenicol
